Hello I’m Doctor Heather Moore owner of
Total Performance Physical Therapy.
Today we're going to go through 5 exercises
for runners that you should be doing every
day at home.
You can do these every day recommended 3 times
a week at least just so you get that core
a little bit stronger and you are able to
become a more efficient runner, this will
allow your legs to be less tired and if you're
experiencing any pain in your knees or in
your shins it will allow that to also help
go away.
The first exercise we're going to do is a
lunge so with a lunge all you're going to
do is take a step forward the weight tend
to go to your heel and you're going to push
backwards with that if you have pain in your
knee when you do a lunge it means that you're
putting all your weight to your toe so you
want to make sure you have a conscious effrt
to put the weight in your heel, the weight
of the foot in front should be in the heel
The next exercise we're going to do is a mountain
climber so you can start off in a plank position
and if this is challenging enough for you
then hold it right there otherwise you can
do bringing up your knees to your chest rapidly,
do that for about a minute, do that about
3 times okay so rest in a little bit in between
each.
The next exercise we're going to do is side
planks, with a side plank we're going to do
is start off in your hand, you want to make
sure your body is nice and level okay, you're
not sagging at the bottom, you can also do
this on your elbow if your hand is too challenging
you want to do this about a minute 3 times
each side, next is a reverse plank so what
you're going to do is just come up on your
hands and your feet, you want to make sure
your butt is nice and high and you're not
sagging again it's a straight line you're
looking for about a minute 3 times with each
of these.
The next that we're going to do is bridging
alright so this is a single leg bridge, this
is a little bit more challenging, you want
to make sure your hip stay level that they're
not dropping as your leg comes up.
To make it more challenging don't let your
butt hit the ground in between each one just
go nice and easy, you want to go up and down
about 30 times and then you're going to switch
to the other side again with this one you
want to make sure all the weight is in your
heel, you should be able to lift your toes
up without having any problems.
Those are the exercises that you should be
doing at home a few times a week to maintain
your running core shape.